## Session 1: Setting a Vision for Making 

Please print out the vision statement tool, and watch the brief video before reading through the activity. 

### Resources
 * [Vision Statement Tool](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B73IBpX2ukUbOW12WE5qUk5FcmM)
 * [Animated Explanation](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0Byq8c7qHfLKYdV82NERoOXJ6bnc)
 * Video Guide for Tool Use

### Framing
The goal of the activity is to create a succinct vision statement for your makerspace. The vision statement tool enables participants to form something akin to an “elevator pitch.” Therefore, try to identify an audience (the person stuck in the elevator with you). Is it a parent? Community member? Board member? Manager? While it is assumed that by the end of this activity, or the week, your organization’s maker-based vision statement may not be in a final form, the activity is intended to help you take the first important steps to forming a single statement that reflects many of the core priorities for your makerspace or maker programs.  

### Activity Sequence
*This activity may take about 2-3 hours to thoroughly complete.*

1. This is intended to be a group activity, but you can adapt these instructions if you are working by yourself. The overall sequence of the activity is to work on a prompt individually and then discuss as a group the highlights of what each person wrote. Then move on to the next prompt. You can estimate taking about 5 minutes to write down your ideas for a prompt and about 5 minutes to discuss the group’s ideas for the prompt. Use the extra prompt text below to help generate ideas. Write down words, phrases or sentences that apply to each prompt.
1. After putting down ideas for a prompt, take eview your responses to each of the prompts, as a group.
1. Once your group has completed the Vision Statement sheet, and made notes under each prompt, they should work to combine these individual statements into a single statement. If possible, video record one or more people reciting the statement, like an “elevator pitch.” Think about who your audience might be for such a pitch.  Try to limit your pitch to a minute or two. 
1. Read (or have members of your team) read the vision statement aloud and make refinements.
1. Consider some of these questions: What were some takeaways from the process for you (individually or as a group)? What was challenging about this process? Which prompt was the most challenging to address? Easiest to address? 
1. Revisit this statement and the prompts from time to time as a way to evaluate its relevance for your work related to making.
1. Community Connection: Upload what you’ve completed with your vision statement--either what you’ve written in the tool or your current version of a vision statement, and even do a video recording of your pitch to the course forum. 
